README.md, before:

![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/BlendMarketing/horseman-core.svg?style=svg&circle-token=f8c7c6e3c3d2e0428d9782e733b6a8ac6ef8e94c)
![David-DM](https://david-dm.org/blendmarketing/horseman-core.svg)

# Horseman

A library for working with [React][react], [Redux][redux] and external APIs,
specifically targeting API's exposing information stored in a CMS.

horseman-core is a part of the [Blend Marketing](https://blend.marketing)
development toolchain. At Blend we primarially work with [CraftCMS][craft] and
[Wordpress][wp] backed CMS, so horseman is targeted **primarially** at those
platforms.

## Concepts

The tools in horseman enable a react / redux application to easily connect
with external data sources. This allows for a development toolchain that gives
content editors the ability to work in familiar systems (Wordpress, Craft) and
gives developers the ability to develop modern frontend websites with that data.

Horseman exposes this functionality through the use of the `ResourceProvider`
component. This providers is responsible for fetching data from an external
API and passing that information to react components for consumption as a prop.

The `ResourceProvider` is most commonly used inside of the
[react-router][router].

## Usage
Any component that depends on an external API call for information can be
wrapped in the `ResourceProvider`. Inform the provider of the endpoint to call
and the data will be provided to your component via the `render` method.

### Standard Requests
To simply fetch data from known endpoint and pass the json into a custom
component, use the `endpoint` prop of the provider. The json at the requested
endpoint will be passed along to your component through the `render` function
parameter.

```js
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<ResourceProvider
  endpoint="http://example.com/resources/myresource.json"
  render={resource => (
    <MyEntry resource={resource} />
  )}
/>
```

### Templated Requests

Many requests don't have a fixed url for fetching information and instead rely
on external data to determine what information to load.

ResourceProvider endpoints are able to be templates by prefixing dynamic
sections with a `:`.

The `ResourceProvider` will swap out these sections with the value passed to the
`endpointVars` prop.

```js
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<ResourceProvider
  endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
  endpointVars={{
    slug: 'foo'
  }}
  render={resource => (
    <MyEntry resource={resource} />
  )}
/>
```

The endpoint fetched in the above example would be
`http://example.com/resources/foo.json`

#### Working with react-router

This pattern works hand in hand with react-router if you want to match
`endpointVars` with route matches.

```js
import { Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<Route
  exact path="/resources/:slug"
  render={({ match }) =>
    <ResourceProvider
      endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
      endpointVars={match.params}
      render={resource => (
        <MyEntry resource={resource} />
      )}
    />
  }
/>
```

## Installation

`yarn add horseman-core`

or

`npm -i horseman-core --save`

### Prerequisites

Horseman assumes that your environment is already setup with React and Redux.
In addition, we assume that you have set up the [`redux-thunk`][thunk]
middleware.

## Simple Example with react-router
```
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux'
import { Provider } from 'react-redux'
import { Router, Route, browserHistory } from 'react-router'
import { Reducers as horsemanReducers } from 'horseman-core'

import reducers from '<project-path>/reducers'

// Add the horseman reducers to the store
const store = createStore(
  combineReducers({
    ...reducers,
    ...horsemanReducers,
    routing: routerReducer
  })
)

const history = syncHistoryWithStore(browserHistory, store)

ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <Router history={history}>
      <Route path="/" component={App}>
        <Route path="foo" render={({match}) => {
          <ResourceProvider
            endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
            endpointVars={match.params}
            render={resource => (
              <MyEntry resource={resource} />
            )}
          />
        }}/>
      </Route>
    </Router>
  </Provider>,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[redux]: http://redux.js.org/
[craft]: https://craftcms.com/
[wp]: https://wordpress.org/
[router]: https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/guides/quick-start
[thunk]: https://github.com/gaearon/redux-thunk

Commit message:

refactor the resource provider to only update if necessary

README.md, after:

![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/BlendMarketing/horseman-core.svg?style=svg&circle-token=f8c7c6e3c3d2e0428d9782e733b6a8ac6ef8e94c)
![David-DM](https://david-dm.org/blendmarketing/horseman-core.svg)

# Horseman

A library for working with [React][react], [Redux][redux] and external APIs,
specifically targeting API's exposing information stored in a CMS.

horseman-core is a part of the [Blend Marketing](https://blend.marketing)
development toolchain. At Blend we primarially work with [CraftCMS][craft] and
[Wordpress][wp] backed CMS, so horseman is targeted **primarially** at those
platforms.

## Concepts

The tools in horseman enable a react / redux application to easily connect
with external data sources. This allows for a development toolchain that gives
content editors the ability to work in familiar systems (Wordpress, Craft) and
gives developers the ability to develop modern frontend websites with that data.

Horseman exposes this functionality through the use of the `ResourceProvider`
component. This providers is responsible for fetching data from an external
API and passing that information to react components for consumption as a prop.

The `ResourceProvider` is most commonly used inside of the
[react-router][router].

## Usage
Any component that depends on an external API call for information can be
wrapped in the `ResourceProvider`. Inform the provider of the endpoint to call
and the data will be provided to your component via the `render` method.

### Standard Requests
To simply fetch data from known endpoint and pass the json into a custom
component, use the `endpoint` prop of the provider. The json at the requested
endpoint will be passed along to your component through the `render` function
parameter.

```js
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<ResourceProvider
  endpoint="http://example.com/resources/myresource.json"
  render={(data, meta) => (
    <MyEntry resource={data} />
  )}
/>
```

### Render Prop

Once data has successfully returned from the endpoint, the provider will execute
the function given through the render prop. The first argument to render will
be the parsed json data located at the endpoint. The second argument will be a
json object representing request meta information such as `loading` and `error`
states.

### Templated Requests

Many requests don't have a fixed url for fetching information and instead rely
on external data to determine what information to load.

ResourceProvider endpoints are able to be templates by prefixing dynamic
sections with a `:`.

The `ResourceProvider` will swap out these sections with the value passed to the
`endpointVars` prop.

```js
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<ResourceProvider
  endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
  endpointVars={{
    slug: 'foo'
  }}
  render={resource => (
    <MyEntry resource={resource} />
  )}
/>
```

The endpoint fetched in the above example would be
`http://example.com/resources/foo.json`

#### Working with react-router

This pattern works hand in hand with react-router if you want to match
`endpointVars` with route matches.

```js
import { Route } from 'react-router-dom';
import { ResourceProvider } from 'horseman-core';

<Route
  exact path="/resources/:slug"
  render={({ match }) =>
    <ResourceProvider
      endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
      endpointVars={match.params}
      render={resource => (
        <MyEntry resource={resource} />
      )}
    />
  }
/>
```

## Installation

`yarn add horseman-core`

or

`npm -i horseman-core --save`

### Prerequisites

Horseman assumes that your environment is already setup with React and Redux.
In addition, we assume that you have set up the [`redux-thunk`][thunk]
middleware.

## Simple Example with react-router
```
import React from 'react'
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom'
import { createStore, combineReducers } from 'redux'
import { Provider } from 'react-redux'
import { Router, Route, browserHistory } from 'react-router'
import { Reducers as horsemanReducers } from 'horseman-core'

import reducers from '<project-path>/reducers'

// Add the horseman reducers to the store
const store = createStore(
  combineReducers({
    ...reducers,
    ...horsemanReducers,
    routing: routerReducer
  })
)

const history = syncHistoryWithStore(browserHistory, store)

ReactDOM.render(
  <Provider store={store}>
    <Router history={history}>
      <Route path="/" component={App}>
        <Route path="foo" render={({match}) => {
          <ResourceProvider
            endpoint="http://example.com/resources/:slug.json"
            endpointVars={match.params}
            render={resource => (
              <MyEntry resource={resource} />
            )}
          />
        }}/>
      </Route>
    </Router>
  </Provider>,
  document.getElementById('root')
)
```

[react]: https://facebook.github.io/react/
[redux]: http://redux.js.org/
[craft]: https://craftcms.com/
[wp]: https://wordpress.org/
[router]: https://reacttraining.com/react-router/web/guides/quick-start
[thunk]: https://github.com/gaearon/redux-thunk
